# Shpg

Ruby + ERB based html page generator. Ambiguously uses the word "Site" to create pages, layouts, granules and assets based structure, and generate the site to produce html pages along with their associated assets.


### Page

Page is the single-alone entity that doesn't depend on other entity and the entity considered to be the main content. It goes with a ruby file where data can be initialized and an ERB template where the data initialized from the ruby file is used. It can set layout and includes granules along with passing data into them.


### Layout

Layout depends on a page. With passed data from the page, it can also includes granules along with passing data into granules.


### Granule

Granule acts like both stand-alone and depended-entity depending on the passing data into itself.


### Assets

Assets are not processable files by the generator, which are included by their path. Any of 'em (page, layout, granule) can include them.


## Installation

Download the repository:
```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/mash-97/shpg.git
```
make `shpg` as `cd`:
```bash
$ cd shpg
```

run:
```bash
shpg$ bundle install
```

and:
```bash
shpg$ rake install
```

or by using gem inside the extracted repository:
```bash
shpg$ gem build shpg
shpg$ gem install --local shpg
```


## Usage

After installing the gem, `shpg` should be available as cli program in the system. So, first we need to create a new site by `create_site` command. Considering a site with the name `mango`:

```bash
$ shpg create_site mango
```

A basic structure for the site should be available inside the mango directory with a index page. We can create page by `create_page` command. Considering a page with the name `fazlee`:

```bash
$ cd mango
mango$ shpg create_page fazlee
```

After making changes in pages, pages can be generated by `generate` command.

```bash
mango$ shpg generate
```

In default, the generated contents will be available inside the output directory.
The site can be visited by starting a server:

```bash
mango$ shpg server
```

or manually.


## Words

It's like a home-made micro-framework. Intended for a specific work to be benefited by.
